how to build a B2B
[Music]
brand welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking B2B I'm your host Sam Dunning
and if you haven't yet why not join
thousands of B2B Legends enjoy my
unusual weekday emails for some lesser
known B2B marketing SEO tips as well as
fresh podcast updates head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newsletter
tab so join me today I've got Seline
fosy Seline is the CMO and co-founder
over at nimbler and she's been growing
B2B brands for 12 years Seline welcome
how are we super nice to see you Sam
very excited to spend my Friday happy
hour with you it's 4M here in Copenhagen
so it is happy hour oh should have
brought a bit just got a Diet Coke for
now I guess I have to do what a
mistake there we go so today we're going
to be diving in exactly the the
importance of brand for B2B companies we
been talking about how it Stacks up
compared to other channels that B2B
marketing execs are often forced to
invest in why B2B might be behind b2c
when it comes to Brand building the
importance of it and how you can
actually a bit of a step by step of how
you can put it into to play for your B2B
company so with that brand building B2B
isn't that a load of fluff Celine like
isn't branding just a logo and a tag on
your website and a headline and job done
move on to the next marketing channel
like isn't that all we need to do yeah
like a PowerPoint PowerPoint template
right yeah no obviously I mean this is a
discussion that happens a lot more in
B2B thankfully these days um just look
around you know like winning in their
category ories people that you hear
about on LinkedIn like from personal
branding to other sorts of content you
tell me what are the brands that are on
top of your mind and that you see
winning uh over time and if build
branding is not the source of it you
yourself I have the feeling that in your
in your services has a lot of brand
building elements to it for a reason so
we can break this as well as we're
breaking B2B here um so definitely I
mean you know for me it's super it's
like a it's a lot of common sense to
talk about brand building um especially
because I'm coming from an advertising
and marketing background right so before
joining the B2B SAS world uh 12 years
ago as you said I worked for media
agencies I was based in New York City um
and I worked for with really large
Brands um and it was you know
the way that b2c has been so forward
thinking in you know how to win a market
and how to stay relevant in and on top
of mine of your customers or prospects
or or future even like community members
yeah is just to uh reverse engineer what
it means to win and when you want to
create uh value for your customers in
B2B as well you actually have to do the
work it's not all about like just like
throwing spaghetties on the wall as we
say and you just do this tactic and this
Performance Marketing tactic and you
know trying this in this ad it's
actually part of a much much
bigger uh job to be done which is really
has most of it has branding elements to
it yes good way to start the discussion
thank
you you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google stealing traffic
leads and mind share from dream clients
every time they're searching for your
services or authors on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking B2B
docomo book a call with me
so with that can you give us a a quick
summary because I I've thrown a few
buzzword at you and I think everyone has
their own idea of what a brand means but
I'd love to hear your definition of what
it means from a B2B standpoint yeah of
course so I mean we all know that we
want to bring value to our
customers um and the way that we do it
especially when you deliver a service or
a product uh in B2B it's that you you
build a brand so that people can
recognize you as being part of a
specific category that uh that solves a
problem so you need to be you need to be
recognized you you need to be on top of
mine you also need to know um how are
you going to win in this category and
why will you bring value to a specific
segment in your Market um uh and based
on that can really just roll out tactics
but before you're doing The Branding
work on this is how we want to win this
is how we want people to situate
ourselves in this market and this is
also how we want to be remembered for
anyone who at some point will need to
have a will need to solve a specific
challenge this is all part of branding
but really is it's a lot of strategic
work to be done at first and what what
we do or what I have done with a lot of
the B2B compan companies I have served
and when I usually actually come in a
B2B company it's uh it's when they're
ready to mature and then they're realize
that we've been able able to keep the
light on for a while with some
performance tactics but somehow we have
reached a uh a road block and what do we
do next and then you realize that all
right The Branding element has not been
thought through in the Strategic way
where um the ENT pry of the company the
exe starting with the executive team to
whoever is part of this this piece of
the puzzle has not actually been given
guidance on what does it mean to win
when you want to take this product or
this service to a market so these are
all branding elements but also Sam the
thing is like it's It's tricky because
every company will Define what branding
means based on the long-term effect that
they want to have and also obviously
having like short-term
so the absolute most important homework
to do is to really Define this
internally which is what I would think
the role of the CMO is at first uh sit
down study your Market understand how
you create value and then Define what
brand building means you you mentioned
to me a logo obviously you know uh
branding guidelines is one aspect of it
you want to have an identity that is
recognized but also your sense of humor
or
uh the content that you produce to
educate your your users to your personal
Brands out there this is all something
that you can decide and put together but
it is part of a plan so that's usually
when I come in it's like all right let's
let's clean this up and kind of build
the uh the stepping stone to to last a
little longer in in a specific category
and Market does that make
sense that's brilliant that's a lot to
break down and I like the fact that
you've mentioned fundamentals like being
recognized for solving a specific
problem looking to win within your
category as well as a couple other
points which I want to dive to in a sec
before we do building a brand so you
mentioned things like um CMO getting
involved with your exec team so does
that mean that brand building is only
for established companies I.E companies
that are growing at a decent rate maybe
they're mid-market may maybe they're
above or is this applicable for newer
businesses AKA startups or similar
absolutely applicable to everyone and
the earlier you actually get to it the
better um the thing is you you have to
see it as brand building as planting
seeds so the earlier you plant seeds the
faster you're are going to see the fruit
of this um and when your Performance
Marketing is on top of its game and you
combine this with a a really good
balance of brand building that is where
you can actually reach higher Milestones
year after year because the market was
ready you have actually warmed them up
you have a space in your in your
specific category you are recognized for
it and you are preparing future
prospects to converse convert faster to
whenever you do Performance Marketing so
I mean I'm a Founder now and one of the
first thing we do we did is uh first of
all we interviewed 100 uh prospects and
and users in just a few months to become
the best student of our Market we have
to be the best students of our Market to
understand what does it mean to win this
market and based on that what are the
tactics that we are going to apply to
see short-term results so now we're like
in just a few months we have reached
over a thousand users so for us it was a
Zone that we wanted to to reach but we
also did the work there was a job to be
done to really understand
strategically how are we going to focus
our SEO effort our ads effort the
content that we write how much brand
building are we going to do ourselves
personally as Founders it is all
interl so I would definitely suggest you
do it as early as possible and just look
at the B b2c Brands I remember being um
um helping so many Executives in the in
the b2c sector and there is actually no
exception to starting with this the only
reason you would as as an advertising
and marketing agency uh get the budget
to roll out something it's because the
work to be done the Strategic
understanding of how you want to create
value and how you're going to measure
this inter internally is totally aligned
and that is what I'm trying to apply as
much as POS possible in B2B and as early
as
possible everything starts with customer
research yet so many B2B companies
neglect it especially in Tech especially
in Tech yes and you know when you are at
a different level of maturity it's very
difficult to sometimes prioritize it and
realize that this is this is actually
the only thing you need to be an expert
at um depending on if you have customer
success or not or you know if your sales
team is even kind of creating patterns
on what they see you can just conduct
interviews yourself like we've been
doing a 100 interviews just the three of
us um that's impressive in such a short
space of time yeah we've been really
busy and really added and you know what
we've been loving it because it just
defines everything that we do it's it's
like we have this imagine this massive
whiteboard of what WI means and how
we're going to get there and then we
really have to dissect everything from
what does our product road map needs to
look like for us to get there what
features do we need to prioritize so
that's more in the software world but
also you know how are competitors moving
and how do we position ourselves against
that to what are what are what is the
demand that people are going to start
asking next they may not even know it
yet so it's really like just putting
this puzzle together and and to me it's
a perfect balance of obviously
Performance Marketing which I love it's
fastpaced it gives you quick result you
can fail fast and then you know grow
faster from your learnings and try again
but the brand building element really s
is like it's the glue that ties it all
together um yeah very passionate about
that one love it yeah yeah love love
that foundational stuff and for anyone
that that wants to check out any episode
specifically on customer research then
we've got two episodes with a guy called
Ryan Paul Gibson and all he does is B2B
customer research so those are worth a
watch on YouTube or listen on the
podcast right going back into what is
brand one of the first things you said
Selene was you should be recognized for
solving a problem so I love that point
tell us a bit more about why that is
important and how that impacts
brand well you know um the customers
that you reach they they have a totally
different work to be done they are they
are busy with a lot of responsibilities
and elements of their jobs that you
probably have no idea fully about what
they're dealing with every day so um the
the piece in their mindset that you need
to reach need to be very crystal clear
so whenever they are ready to be in your
market for a specific problem that they
need to solve you need to have been able
to educate them so clearly that they
they actually don't want to spend more
time thinking about it they just want to
execute so you your job is to make their
job easier because you're just one small
piece of all the things they actually
need to accomplish on a daily basis
you're like can see yourself as a small
piece of an ecosystem that they have to
have in order to make things run on
their side so how are you going to
present yourself situate yourself
in a market that is competitive but also
in a way that you speak you speak
directly to what they need at the moment
that they needed so that's really is the
beauty and consistency I mean repetition
and
also try to be bold and creative and I
have yet to see a lot more B2B companies
trying to have this emotional connection
with their Market in the sense that I
mean today you can utilize so so many
channels that are super personal you can
use your personal brand you can use Tik
Tok you can you can do podcast obviously
you can do a lot more things than just
like traditional marketing so if you
want to be on top of of mine of your of
your customers knowing that they have a
lot to think about just connect with
them in a way that is much more human
and fun why not so I would really
encourage you as a B2B company to try to
be
braver like a bit more bold we could see
more of that just don't be as Brave as
me and start asking people on the street
what they think makes a bad website or
seen or if people should pricing on
their websites and that kind of stuff I
think maybe I've taken a bit too far
with my latest LinkedIn shorts oh no I'm
all in for it go for it I'm your biggest
fan so yeah really cool good stuff so
when it comes to solving a problem how
do you you recommend B2B companies kind
of Define or find rather or discover
problems that are are
juicy that are bleeding neck for their
prospects or really expensive problems
that they're kind of genuinely motivated
to to fix I mean keep it simple uh first
of all like don't try to over complicate
this either there is a a Missing Link in
in what your customers are are needing
in the market that you can just fill the
Gap with or you can decide to compete
with someone in another better different
way
because um for example they're they're
only catering half of what your users
really need so I think just being again
a better student of your Market
understanding where companies are moving
and just not necessarily just follow the
masses but be more creative and think
ahead of where is this actually going in
the bigger
picture uh and then obviously you're
going to fail a few times you're going
to try things it's not going to work out
sometimes you're going to you're going
to launch things that you know will land
a little flat and then you'll try again
it is not it is not a guarantee that you
will succeed immediately but what the
job to be done again here is really to
try to think fast on how you can win and
see that you are creating value and then
build upon that so just be fast at
failing so that you can be faster at
winning nice approach um let's move on
to winning in a
category we've um we've spoken a little
bit about this on the podcast before
with a guy you might know called pep
Leah founder of a company called winter
does message testing for
websites so he he came on and and
essentially told us about if you're
trying to like if you're a newer
business or a startup company and you've
got Giants in your industry rather than
trying to take on those Giants and do
everything that they do like pick a
super small segment so let's say you're
in your competitors serve a whole base a
whole range of Industries pick one
industry or one focused client or one
market that they're neglecting or not
doing that much in and do everything you
can to understand their world like the
problems their motivations like you said
their jobs to be done and look to
ultimately win in that tiny sector and
then Branch out from there so is that
what what it means for you or is that is
it a bit different looking at kind of
how to win categories from a branding
perspective so it is not easy to be
honest with you to win in a category
especially depending on who you're
competing against like it could be
monster of companies that are way ahead
of the game with their let's say
marketing muscles and and and years of
experience but there are ways to really
make a mark and and and try to be at
least on top of mine in those categories
and really I mean you did start this
podcast by asking me if branding was
fluff in in B2B but think about it if
you have to win in a category what do
you have to do the most you know it's
not going to be uh paid ads that will
get you there it really is the community
you're building it's going to be your
SEO game is going to be um what type of
people your website attracts uh where
are you actually creating content where
it hurts what people are looking like
looking for how do you build trust how
do you build trust personally but how do
you build trust as a company because you
always show up with the solution that
they've been asking so consistency in
brand building again is a long-term game
but this is how you win at the end so
you know keep your eyes on the end goal
always and and try things but try them
with a very Clear Vision on this is
where you want to go to so if winning in
a category is your is your absolute
go-to uh winning strategy then yes look
into brand building so that you can
um you can make much more noise and
create an awareness that maybe your
competitors haven't thought about yet
and again it links back to how creative
are you going to be about it don't copy
them just be
the different one so there are ways to
really go back to the essence of what
marketing and branding was I kind of
want to say in the mman days because you
know it was all about being supera
creative like where is it in B2B that we
have to actually come up with super bold
campaigns and I think this is going to
be an advantage for a lot of
companies how do you recommend that B2B
companies do bold campaigns that are
going to help them stand out but at the
same time are somewhat linked to their
product so it is actually relevant so
you are staying top of mind but at the
same time there is at least some
reference to the product or the
offer well it's a little bit a little
bit like you interviewing people on the
street right you thought okay I I kind
of want to make a wave out there and and
be a little different and I want to
connect with people in a fun way but
then they'll know exactly what kind of
area I belong to and that is the same I
mean at the end of the day you can sell
B2B and try to pretend that you're
selling uh business to a business but
really if you don't get into people's
heart if you don't understand their
psychology and if you don't find
creative ways to make these connections
happen like you do just walking on the
street and interviewing them is going to
be very
difficult yeah like I suppose it's
easier for me because I'm a founder and
I run the business so I can essentially
do what I want probably shouldn't do
what I want most of the time because
most of that wouldn't be linked to
revenue driving activities but some
sometimes still do but for I guess
marketers tuning in or even solo
Founders that might not have the luxury
that I do how do they kind of get this
Buy in to do these kind of activities
with the rest of the their team EXA team
or their leadership team yeah that's a
that's a problem I have seen a lot in
B2B in the sense that um the marketing
muscles was added way too late and in
some scenarios a lot of scenarios the
executive team does not have a branding
or marketing background so very you know
focused on yeah the building the company
but not really thinking how to create a
connection in the market um I would
suggest that you start you know h like
working with some Freelancers or trying
to build a brand yourself just keep it
simple I mean you can have a Tik Tok
Channel you can post funny reals on
Instagram you can actually um have a
webinar once in a while and just invite
10 people from your industry to speak
freely about their problems you can do a
lot of things to be creative in a way
that is very human and doesn't require
massive budget you just have to be
consistent at it you just have have to
do it as in the sense that you meet it
in the long run like don't do it for
three months and then give up because
there has been a change in your team or
so forth just make sure that what you do
create value over time and if you don't
have a specific marketing person and
house to lead this you can you know work
with an agency or you can even pick
someone from a team that has more of a
outgoing personality and wants to try
something outside of their regular
responsibility it works as
well how do you check if these
activities are actually making impact
absolutely great question you have to
Define first what impacts means you
can't just do it and then decide let's
find out no you have to really as part
of the job to be done that I talked
about with the strategy it's it's all
the same piece of the puzzle if you want
to win and if you want to build a brand
you need to Define what it means and it
can mean a lot of things to a lot of
companies it could be uh that uh we want
to have as much traffic on our website
or we want to use humor in a different
way or we want to build a community of x
amount of people or we um we want to
have X amount of branded search I mean
it can be so many things that you
absolutely have to Define before you do
it otherwise you're just executing in
the dark and that's exactly the recipe
to give up on branding so you don't want
to do that you want to make branding a
piece of your strategy so that it
supports your marketing effort it
supports your sales efforts um and it
has its kpis it has its metrics on its
own but the thing
is you know it's it's kind of fluid
depending on what type of company and
what type of teams you have how you want
to Define it but as long as you define
it you're
good I feel like it's quite a difficult
one for marketers like you said earlier
depending on where the leadership Buy
in I think it's if you're going to do it
like you said it's important to Define
what are the key metrics that we want to
get on the back end out of this are you
we're doing it for six months we're
doing this exercise for 12 months and
have a hypothesis on what will happen in
an ideal
situation EXA make these plays keep keep
going and keep the resource and keep the
investment going but I feel like it's
sometimes a crutch for marketers to lean
on if something doesn't go well ah it's
okay we did it for brand on the SE Suite
might be like well that hasn't driven
demos for like six months and they're
leaning on the brand crutch like what
what's your response there yeah it used
to be very much like that actually but
today honestly you can measure so many
things including brand elements so I
think that you know as a marketeer you
just have to evolve and learn also
yourself like how are you going to best
educate uh your team internally because
how do you want to create value
externally and
explain what you do to create value if
you can't even agree internally of what
good looks like so branding is an
element to that you do have to evolve
you do have to do your homework there
are so many ways that you can agree to
define a brand but you also need to make
sure that the company you step into is
ready to have these kind of
conversations
I mean sometimes I speak to CEOs and
board and they will tell me we haven't
done branding yet and I'm thinking okay
do you have some sort of positioning um
do you know your competitors do you have
a website that has that follows brand
guidelines okay so you do have some
branding if you have some of these
elements you just didn't know it was
that you just thought it was a given
okay let's put some metrics on what good
looks like so that we can expand on that
what does it mean to have a branded
website what do you want to achieve out
of it okay how do you measure that what
do we want to increase on a quarterly
basis based on that okay what type of
Performance Marketing do we need to do
to balance the fact that we want our
brand uh um value to grow while our
Revenue metrics also follow that so
you've got to have these conversations
and kind of reverse the logistic uh the
logic sorry on okay this is this is what
you want this is how you want to win on
the short term but then that means we
need to do that on the long term it's
also going to make you do make such
better decisions on who you want to hire
to do this and why and what budget do
you really need do you really need just
a kind of random budget or is this a
budget that is very thought through um
it just brings so much logic when you
have these conversations but again I
think a lot of marketeers don't actually
enter company ianes with you know
interviewing both ways and making sure
that the company is ready for that um
and to me that's something that is
changing a bit more
thankfully so I think we're going in the
right direction but there is still some
work to be done great point I think a
lot of B2B marketers need to be able to
take a lot more
accountability yeah and like you said
you can't just blame the CEO or the
exact team for not understanding
marketing or branding it's your
responses responsibility as a marketer
going in to clearly Define like this is
the role that I want to be doing and
this is the impact I propos to have on
the business like in the interview stage
and if that company isn't going to be a
good match for where you see your
strengths and what you want to bring to
the table it's a brilliant point that
why are you working there like what's
the point and
exactly let's just take SEO as an
example which I know you are very fond
of um that's always a topic of
conversation that is such an eyeopener
to Startup scale ups that I join where
they I'm thinking do you actually
understand what SEO does in the long run
and do you know what it takes to build
this do you know actually what you have
to commit to in order to get this done
and what it will actually contribute to
in your in your pipeline in the future
and when you really put the educational
piece together people look at you and
they're like why haven't we done this
earlier and I'm like exactly it's just
that you didn't know what you we didn't
translate this in your
world yeah or either that or either you
do explain it in a way that those folks
will understand you say look this is
this for in example with SEO like if we
take the problem situation I.E when we
search for for what you do your services
your offer we compare you to
alternatives on Google competitors are
above you stealing that traffic stealing
inbound leads 24/7 to your website if
you explain the problems the impact and
the outcomes and the EXA team still
don't get it move on like you're banging
your head against the brick wall exactly
then you know that this is not a fit or
something needs to happen or you need to
be okay not to be okay with it and
that's a choice for sure so so with that
in mind we touched on it then how does
building a brand or allocating a
resource or cash or budget to a brand
Stack Up Against other channels be it
events trade shows influencer marketing
SEO Partnerships plays or any other goto
Market motion that BB ORS are taking
well why does it have to stack up it's a
perfect balance it works together it's
it's it's a it's
um it's a an exercise to be done so that
it completes each other that's how I see
it at least there is no competition it's
it's you know why we talk about
Marketing in sales alignment so much
these days it's exact exactly for that
reason it's because people realize that
oh we are truly Partners here like The
Branding element the marketing element
obviously the revenue element and
product follows along so everything is
part of a bigger family so it's not it's
not really competing what you want to
stack on top of each of one another it's
more looking at your Revenue touch
points where you create the most value
as well put this into a specific logic
of what's going to get the you there uh
fast but also long term and make sure
that your fast tactics will convert
faster or like with a higher ratio and
uh and then decide based on that to have
a a logic on how you're going to
allocate budget because it is linked
directly to a hypothesis that you've
made that we are okay spending x amount
of budget in this paid campaign because
we believe that with The Branding
elements that we've done before the
Workshops the you know everything that
you know is linked to your awareness how
much people are ready for this you know
it's going to be a better
success so I think it's really just a
um a work to be done in harmony instead
instead of competing because you can't
really do one without the other I mean
you can but then it you may actually
reach a a point where you're hitting a
wall because you don't know how to grow
faster or even continue growing and
that's a
problem can you still grow to a decent
rate without worrying about brand I I
don't know Founders Tech marketers that
want to rush to hit their first million
anual recurring revenue or two million
is it still doable uh I mean you know
the thing about not doing branding is
that you're kind of losing the masses
the masses of people that exp
exponentially make you convert so I
think you can if you have huge marketing
dollars or if you've had like
investments from VCS and you are okay to
just burn that uh
but again it's not sustainable and it is
definitely not something that will make
you win over time so if you're in it for
the for just a few years
go ahead but if you're really into this
for the long term and you want to you
want to gain market share to an
exponential level you need you need to
bring in the
masses it's a lot of bit about gaining
mind sh so going back to the original
point so when someone thinks of your
company name they think they do this I
gong they do cool recordings or they
solve this problem they help me fix this
if I'm struggling with this do that like
is that is that the number one outcome
that btb company should be thinking of
or there's there kind of more outcomes
at that like from a really high level
yes so I think it is definitely just you
know pick three top things that you
absolutely want to be on top of of of
mine for your Market keep it simple for
them to just always recognize that and
be consistent I mean sometimes I have
conversations with uh people who are not
in marketing and telling me
we've been talking about this for a
while I'm like yeah we're going to be
talking about this
forever uh we are never going to not
talk about this because this is exactly
what we do and we need to repeat this in
so many different forms and ways and add
some fun and then be more serious and
add an educational piece but literally
what we do is that we do talk about
these three things all the
time and somehow that's something that a
lot of people can't really compute
because they're thinking but you know we
are we're just repeating our I'm like
that's how you
win it's almost like posting on LinkedIn
so I'm posting on LinkedIn almost by SEO
every day pretty much saying the same
thing in a different way or from a
different point of view from a different
problem stance from a customer question
from a query from a new idea from a
video standpoint from asking the public
whatever but I think sometimes in our
own heads we think we're saying it too
much when in really take LinkedIn
example no one gives a s hit because
they're just scrolling the the feed and
just thinking like ah this person again
yeah and eventually like after seeing
you for time ages and ages and ages they
might start remembering what you do but
I think sometimes marketers and Founders
get stuck in their own head thinking
they're saying it too much when really
no one's got the time to actually care
so you've got to keep repeating the
message yes absolutely and then you're
gonna people are going to resonate with
it in a different way it's actually
going to really land you know based on
the format that you deliver it and how
much they see it there is no magic
tricks I mean you have to be exposed to
something for so long I mean look at the
b2c brands that we love we love them
because they're super consistent and
they have the simplest message and we
can relate to that and we know that this
is something I know and so I'm gonna go
buy those night Nike or whatever brand
you love because consistency and it's
been the name of the game forever in b2c
and I'm thinking B2B keep it simple
don't over complicate this corporate
language and all things that you does it
even make sense um simple consistency
new forms of doing it try a lot of
tactics fail and try others you know
make sure that you create some
stickiness but yeah at the end of the
day it really is that this is your three
things you have to stick with and you're
going to be talking about this basically
the entire uh the Entre the entire time
you have this job
that's how it is yeah don't get me
started on B2B companies and over comp
over complicating their websites
especially their headlines and their
homepage hero areas like some of the B2B
sites headlines are just painful of
jargon confusing language that the
target clients would never say have you
done this like I have actually like copy
paste something from a B2B website and
put it in chat GPT and be like what does
this mean in human language yeah what
what is What is the value for me in this
these words like I
don't a robot 90% of techos SAS
companies are going to 20x my revenue
and turbocharge my business whatever
that means no no relevance to their
specific offer the problem they fix or
or they differentiate in the market that
people actually care about just
random jargon but also have a little of
fun I mean you know again going back to
everything else is like be braver just
be bolder and that's also another
decision that for some reason it's just
so hard for B2B company to be okay with
it it's like no no no no no we you know
we're so serious we cater to businesses
but you know just try try to be lighter
huse humor or whatever tone works for
your Market it it is going to create
connections that you have never seen
before um and people want to follow you
because they are entertained and they
they they they find something attractive
in the way that you communicate your
message and and that's you know that's
the beauty of marketing as well exactly
exact it's a great point it's probably
why a lot of smart B2B Tech Brands
especially now are getting involved in
like LinkedIn influencer marketing like
finding folks that have a strong
audience in their ICP and then just
paying those guys to create entertaining
videos that are slightly tied back to
the product they offer like it's a super
smart smart move why not harness that
audience of someone that's already
creating fun stuff in their space that's
relevant to their Niche and their ICP
absolutely doing it years years ago like
B so much so much further
forward but look I mean Sam we don't
really have any excuses in B2B anymore
because the channels are there you know
like you mentioned the influencer
marketing you have all the social media
you can do so much uh with content I
mean the Creator economy hello anybody
can actually host in like like anything
that they want that is relevant yeah
it's just about just being brave to take
that step and do it with consistency um
yeah so I encourage everyone who's
listening to just you know go to work on
Monday morning and think How brave am I
going to be
today let's let's wrap up with a few
kind of actionable tips so when it comes
to for anyone that's been been tuning
and thinking I want to get started in
this brand
building magic we started you said said
a bit earlier one of the first things
that you should nail down is think about
the impact so clearly Define exactly
what you want to get out of the exercise
I.E do you want to improve website
traffic is there another measurable
outcome that we want as a part of this
so is that is that the first very first
step that you should kind of Define what
kpis or what metrics that you want as a
result I mean first you have to have the
Buy in internally that you're do doing
this for a specific reason and then you
know how you want to measure it so once
you know how to measure it you can just
come up with hypothesis on what you
think is going to work when you roll out
your message in different ways and then
where do you want to allocate budget do
you want to be super risky or do you
want to take like baby steps but a lot
of them so these are discussions that
you have to take based on like you know
testing the water of what company you
actually work with and how how willing
are they to try something new and take a
risk especially budget
wise got it okay so go in with a Define
the impact going with some kind of
hypothesis and does that involve like I
don't know we're going to give this six
months we're g this 12 months we this 24
months we're going to use these channels
and we predict by certain milestones and
certain time or cash investment that we
expect I don't know this much we expect
our branded search to ramp up by this or
this website traffic to go by this or
when people are filling out our website
demo requests we we expect like an
uptick and how did you hear about us
through through various channels is that
the kind of stuff we should H be
hypothesizing or is that a bit more to
it yeah absolutely so putting a Time
Horizon to things is part of your
hypothesis like I will always start with
like a 12 month cycle especially when
there are a lot of brand building
elements because that's what takes the
most time to really see its performance
and then Within These 12 months I will
say all right like um if we do a paid ad
a paid campaign then we will want to see
how much it convert literally weekly and
kind of learn from it like what messages
resonating and so forth so you just you
have a bit of a longer approach and then
you break it down into your quarters
your month so that your team because
leadership is a big part of it like how
do you actually get people to
concentrate and and be responsible for
specific things at a specific time you
just tell them what they're expected to
do and what the out should be in a Time
Horizon so the time Horizon is super
important you do have to have the buying
of this internally as
well got it what do you do once you you
nail down all that
stuff you continue you add to it you get
Bolder you want to gain more market
share maybe you think about
repositioning um you want to maybe if
you are into software maybe it's you are
ready now to launch a new product um you
just just build on top of it you use the
same logic but once you feel like you've
got something that is running almost
automatically even though it's not but
you know what I mean is like okay you
have a good Cadence and you can see that
it's progressing according to plan and a
good logic then you add to it and then
you add to it again and then you add to
it again until you reach
winning and it could be winning in a
category I want to reach
winning so sounds
good we all yeah yeah always always work
to that Milestone um are there any
mistakes that we should look to avoid if
we're trying to build a brand just don't
wait don't wait don't you know postpone
this for later when we're bigger when we
have like really educate yourself on
what brand building brand building means
and how you can actually start we are
three founders at nimbler we are heavily
brand building we three people literally
doing everything from coding to product
experience to marketing to partnership
and we're doing brand building so you
know just you know choose the elements
that are okay to integrate in your
day-to-day and start today just do it
but do it
consistently love it Seline with that I
want to thank you very much for for
giving us a a B2B branding Master Class
very much appreciate the time the band
are on the back and fourth so please do
tell us more about how everyone tuning
in can learn more about nimbler yourself
and any way you want to send the
audience my pleasure I mean I love
talking about that stuff and I've been
helping so many Founders CEOs VCS you
know kind of seeing the light in this
connect with me on LinkedIn uh and check
out the nimbler website if you're
looking for graphical uh review and uh
yeah I'm super happy to connect with new
people and just share my story and help
out so just reach out perfect we put all
of those links in the show notes below
with that thanks once again Seline
really enjoyed the chat thank you no
worries go ahead uh happy Friday for a
happy hour today oh yeah next time we'll
have to do a V2 maybe uh maybe I'll come
your way and have a few beers so that'll
be that would always be enjoyable but um
yeah appreciate you all tuning in as
always if you want to catch more no BS
action will be to be episodes head over
to breaking
bb.com and we should catch you on the
next one thank you so much Sam take care
[Music]